We don't do programming.
We don't know how to do this.
So we need some advice from some programmers out of the MSC.
We need some support and some financial assistance out of the student government.
We need you, Garland, to say it's perfectly okay for the various outfits in the Corps to be a part of this.
There's a big Mardi Gras, and we want the band in it.
Bobby, we want Miss Texas A&M in it.
We participated in the planning.
In fact, I believe each one of us assigned someone to help him work through all of the issues.
It was great.
It was a lot of fun.
We were largely along Joe Route, is where most of the crowd was, but we were pleased.
And again, I lost money, but I think we would have lost a whole lot more had he not called on other folks for some help.
You didn't have to cope with any natural disasters or fires?
illnesses or sudden deaths or any calamities, did you?
No, not that I recall.
Okay.
And no fiscal dilemmas?
You said there was a couple of deficits, but you worked on them?
Yeah, we worked on those and turned those around.
What about recalling some goofs?
where somebody dropped the ball or something, or where you said the wrong thing to somebody?
Can you remember any, but now maybe humorous, but at the time?
Well, yeah, I can share one with you.
I will never forget this.
It was Mr. Runyon's birthday, and so Jim, the MSC, was going to host a little birthday gathering for him at his favorite restaurant.
It was called Ewals or Ewals.
on Lemon Avenue, and I think it's closed now, in Dallas.
And so we took, we went by University Aircraft, stopped in Waco to pick up, to pick up Doug DeClewitt.
Doug DeClewitt was the other region who was in that, in the meeting on the arts.
So we stopped there to pick up Doug DeClewitt.
And we got to the restaurant and, let's see, it was Mr. DeClewitt,
Mr. and Mrs. McKenzie, Jim and Pam and myself, and there were some other student leaders, and Mr. and Mrs. Gilchrist, Henry Gilchrist, and his wife.
Mr. Runyon's daughter and her family.
And so Jim said, well, Bobby, I'm going to, he actually didn't tell me, he just called on me at dinner and asked me to say a few things.
And so I got up and I was talking about how important Mr. Runyon's gift is to the university because it does, art does add to the human experience, particularly, and it adds so much more on a college campus.
And I said, as you all know,
You know, I'm a Bryanite and Bryan College Station is just a cultural wasteland.
Well, little did I know Mrs. Gilchrist, who I believe is a Harrington,
came up to me afterwards and said, I was just crushed when you called Bond College Station a cultural wasteland.
And, oh, she's going on and on and on about, you know, about what cultural things are here.
And I said, well, yeah, I said, well, it probably was too dramatic as I described it,
But what I was trying to do is to emphasize just how significant Mr. Runyon's gift is and literally what we hope to have happen and how that collection will obviously make it much easier to attract others, other kinds of gifts.
and museum quality pieces, and so she recognized, she joked about it, she laughed about it afterwards, but she came up to me, and it was a group of us, and she said this, and I'm going, oh my goodness, what have I done, what have I done?
And she reminded me that she was a Harrington, and so I said, oh boy, I'm in serious trouble now.
In a similar fashion, do you remember during the year where either you or somebody didn't show up for something that was important, where they were supposed to be there?
Not that I remember.
Okay.
All right.
On an organizational chart, MSC reported to Vice President Colbus.
Right.
Describe his role for you that year.
Boy, most of the student leaders would meet with him on a regular basis.
I believe we got together with him monthly, if I recall.
I think we ended up meeting with Eddie Joe about monthly.
So we would have this time with Dr. Koldis, but he would also make himself available to us that if we wanted to visit with him one-on-one about a particular issue, we could.
I always viewed him as the person that I could go to if Jim and I couldn't resolve an issue or an issue between us, we couldn't resolve ourselves, that I could always, that John Coles was always a resource for me.
Not that I could go and tattle on Jim, but I could literally go to Dr. Coles and say,
Can you facilitate Jim and I resolving this issue?
Now, I never had to, but I got this, I always felt like
for lack of a better word, he was kind of like this father figure who, he was of course always just so gracious and so calm and I just never saw him, never saw him angry, never saw him upset, just so even keeled.
But I always,
I always had this assurance, largely in the way he interacted with me, that I could talk to him about anything.
In fact,
It's like I ask him, okay, are you pretty pleased with how things are going with MSCE?
And I always felt like he was honest in his response to me, that he thought we were doing well, thought we were addressing particularly the financial issues.
But like I said, always felt that I could go to him.
Never had to, but always felt that I could.
So you graduated in five years.
What were the events off campus during those five years that caused you to stop and take note of where you were and what those events might mean to you?
Were there, you know, there's no World War II, there's no Pearl Harbor.
Were there any events off campus that caused you to stop and say, oh, that might affect me?
All the discussion about economic development and how, I should say, the state of affairs relative to the state's economy was a big issue.
our lack of diversity in the economy, that we were so heavily dependent on the oil and gas, and that all the savings and loan scandals were also big issues.
And so I realized, OK, my goodness, now there are going to be new economic markets coming about in the states, so there might be some additional job opportunities there.
Politics began to be on, particularly state politics.
I really got interested in state politics and thought, well, man,
not necessarily in a public office, but around or involved in it somehow.
My desire or the political bug in me was antsy to get involved in something.
Did anyone ever attempt to persuade you to join there?
Yes.
In fact, the very first campaign, well, I got a call one day from this guy by the name of Rick Perry, who I did not know, and he said, you know, I'm State Representative Rick Perry, I'm going to be in town, meet with some student leaders, I want you to be there.
I said, okay, now Rick Perry.
So I go to this meeting and he says, I appreciate y'all being here.
And he says, let me tell you why I asked you here.
A good friend of mine is running for Congress and I need your help.
And I said, well, I'm MSC president, and we don't do that political stuff.
You can talk to the student body president.
They're all political over there.
And Rick refused to take no for an answer.
He said, no, you need to do this.
You need to do this.
And in fact, I'm bringing him to campus.
I want you all to have lunch with him.
So he brought Pete Guerin to campus, and we met Pete and his wife, and wonderful lunch, and I thought, well, okay, maybe I can do this.
And I had one other meeting with him and thought, okay, I'll do this.
So I went over and worked on Pete's campaign, largely putting together signs and distributing them.
So this is your MSC Council President year?
Mm-hmm.
And went out and put those signs out and, you know, I'm campaigning hard for Pete Guerin as he's running for Congress against Joe Barton.
And so had a blast doing it.
Of course, we didn't win.
We lost.
Lost the election, but got the nicest note
and he came back through and said thank you, and that just left this indelible pression on me.
Well, Rick, in fact, also got me to do a commercial.
and that they shot with students, Pete Guerin and students.
And so I was in a commercial.
And so that was the very first time that I had actually been involved, and I was involved in a, it was a pretty major way for me.
Did anyone attempt to tell you you shouldn't do that?
No.
Okay.
My concern was, my real concern was how, the benefit is to play up my leadership role.
My concern was how does that impact my organization?
And I don't want it to negatively impact my organization.
Then I didn't know, I knew we didn't get direct federal support so I knew
Joe Barton wouldn't necessarily kill a federal program that was coming to the MSC because there aren't any.
But I was concerned about that.
But what's interesting is after that, and in fact after my tenure in the MSC was over, I got a call from Joe Barton's office.
They wanted me to come by and talk to him.
I went by to talk to them about going to work and taking an internship.
I ended up not doing it, but I was at least pleased that they had called.
My name was passed along by Dennis Gearing, who was also a member of the council.
Dennis was our community member of the MSC Council, and so he knew I was job hunting and had them call me, so I thought that was nice.
During those five years as an undergraduate, what were the events that you think helped to draw all A&M students together?
What are the events for an undergraduate here that helped to build school spirit, Aggie feelings, however it might be described?
Oh, man.
We did have a big issue, and I don't know if it brought us together or if it caused us to realize how diverse we are.
There was a student organization on campus called SWAMP.
I don't remember what it stood for.
That's the acronym.
Swamp.
Students, student, and they were against something.
I know students, something against, and I don't remember, but this group decided
that they were gonna sit and walk on the grass at the MSC.
And I remember there being such controversy around that.
And so while it brought together a lot of people, it also, I think, forced the campus to realize that not everybody is
that we're diverse and we've got diverse interests.
This group chose to do that and it was gonna be a confrontation with that group and the Corps of Cadets.
And I don't quite remember what happened, how it was resolved or how it went away.
I don't remember if they got on the grass.
I just, I can't remember.
But I don't think there was any one event
But aren't there series of events that kind of pull everybody together?
Well, I think athletic events always do.
That's a big one.
I believe what... All right, now old-timers would say silver taps, bonfire, muster,
Yale practice and commencements.
Well I would say commencements and I would say Yale practice.
Muster and other events for, I believe, the general student body, or the general student, it's a very different experience when you're involved and you're a student leader.
And while we've got a lot of student involvement on campus and lots of student organizations,
The more active you are, the more, at least, it's all anecdotal, but the more active you are, the more you're likely to go to muster, do things related to your commencement.
But I do think those things play an important role.
But I think there's so many folks who are still left out of it.
I think getting your Aggie ring is a, you know, ring day where you order or pick up your rings is just a big thing because you see people over there and you get to talk to them and spend time with them.
You see, most institutions today, senior rings are passe.
Outdated, old fashioned, nobody gets them.
Well, you know, I've had younger cousins to go here.
And for all of us, that's been a big day now.
They're not as involved as they'd like to be, particularly in their A&M clubs.
But they do feel fairly strongly about the school and about the rings.
Now, I did not know about the ring dunking thing.
And until my cousin told me about it, and she said, did you do your ring dunking?
And I said, what do you mean?
And I thought, well, maybe, you know, what do you do?
And so she explained it to me, and I'm going, well, and she said, y'all didn't do that?
And I said, I don't remember doing that.
I think that's fairly recent, because I've mentioned it to some old timers, and they certainly didn't.
All right, let's divert on that issue.
What were the typical student...
indulgences of your undergraduate years?
What did students do?
Tobacco, alcohol, etc.
Alcohol was a big one.
Where?
Where did they get it and where did they drink it?
Dixie Chicken.
Actually, Northgate was the big deal.
There was always places at Northgate where you could get alcohol and I don't remember whether we, there was this neat little
There were a couple of neat little places that opened on Northgate.
It seems like Northgate was expanding, and they became very, very popular places.
A big hangout was La Taqueria, which is across from Cafe Excel.
Cafe Excel was Rosalie's.
for a while.
That was a big place.
Then there was a huge nightclub that was, I don't remember the name of it, but it was over on Harvey Road.
I forget the name of it though.
But that was a big hangout for everybody.
Also, we did a lot of, students did a lot of traveling.
By that I mean it was very easy for students to travel for concerts.
While we didn't have a lot of the big-name concerts here, we could drive to Austin.
We would drive to Austin and to Houston to concerts and make a night of it.
Of course, the big thing also was to go to Sixth Street when you were in Austin.
You always had to do Sixth Street, and of course, associated with that was drinking.
There was also a big event that the Aggie Cowboys would do.
And it was generally, they would generally bring in some great well-known band.
And the big deal there was to serve hurricanes.
And so we'd make sure, most certainly we'd go to that.
Movies became or were very, very popular where not just, and it was movies you could, I mean renting movies, not always going to the movies, but now you could rent movies and so.
And have your friends over?
Yeah, and that was a big deal.
Would it be at that, would there be alcohol served?
Sometimes, but not always.
Now, in some of these places at Northgate, people would overdo it and get drunk.
And were, in those years, your undergraduate years, were those establishments competitively careful about checking the age of people making their purchases?
I don't remember.
Well, I don't think so, because the drinking age at that time was 18.
And so most students were okay.
As we read today about binge drinking,
For some reason, I'd like to believe, or at least I'm remembering, we didn't binge.
I think we would drink, but I thought we were fairly responsible, that we would know when to cut ourselves off.
It always helped, too, I think, to go in groups.
We had not caught on yet to the designated driver.
But generally there was one or two individuals that kind of was responsible for the group.
And so you kind of had somebody who kind of took the lead and that person usually did not have to drink as much as the others.
Happy hours in town were a big deal, particularly when you could do two for one.
And so students would take advantage of that.
But I just, I don't think there, I just never remember.
I don't remember hearing about, about binge drinking.
I also,
I've just been thinking about this really recently.
I don't recall any of my classmates or any of my friends being alcoholics or for me to feel like they were alcoholics.
I do remember now, I had a couple of friends in high school that now I know were alcoholics.
And I remember them covering it up with
with mouthwash or cologne and perfume.
But I don't remember any of my friends in college.
It was like, maybe because we were 18 and we could do it, and I'm not advocating changing the rules again, but sometimes when it's there for you,
It's kind of like working in a fast food restaurant.
You just get to the point where, I don't want to eat french fries anymore.
I don't want another hamburger.
I want something else.
And by and large, this was consumption of beer?
Yes.
By and large, consumption of beer.
All right.
Smoking.
What were they smoking, your contemporaries?
Cigarettes, some cigars, but there were people that I knew that smoked pot, but not very many.
And again, my best guess was they would do it
It was not like they would do it in a large crowd.
They would start out somewhere drinking.
They'd say, go to happy hour.
They're not on their way from happy hour, excuse me, to a club.
They'd smoke it in the car.
And obviously you could smell it.
But that...
I don't remember that being a regular thing.
It was sort of being sort of kind of cool to smoke.
But what I also found interesting, we did one of the SCONA programs, and I was amazed at the number of students that came to SCONA that smoked.
And I remember all the other student leaders talking about, what is this deal with everybody smoking?
Because it was, I mean, it's a big thing.
And actually we had a lot of students that came from the Middle East for that SCONA conference.
So I was amazed by that.
Let's see.
whiskey and other stronger alcohol was that legal could you buy it by the bottle it was legal you could buy you could buy it fairly easily and i was trying to remember even at parties did we try scan punch was kind of
It was kind of a big deal in high school, of course, but it wasn't such a big deal here.
Like I said, the big deal at the Aggie Cowboy deal was hurricanes.
But you could buy hard liquor and do mixed drinks.
I mean, some people did, but by far, beer was much more cheaper.
The imported beers were just starting to be popular, and so I think a lot of people were drinking.
We always liked to try the imported beers.
Let's see, and you don't even know what Whiskey Bridge meant, do you?
No.
See, when this was a dry county for hard liquor for whiskey, you drove Highway 60 towards Snook, and just after you crossed the Brazos River, there was a little country store on the north side.
The site has just been cleared by the four-lane road.
And so you went over there and legally could buy...
a pint, and bring it back, and so that was called Whiskey Bridge.
I don't know how many students actually bought alcohol except if they were having parties, and big things were obviously kegs.
But it seemed that most folks who, rather than just buy it, we would buy drinks and not actually buy the liquor.
But that's just, again, the people I'm most familiar with.
All right, look back on these five years now from the point of view of diversity.
Did it matter to you and your colleagues much as you realize it now about someone's ancestry or their sex?
Were women and men and black and white and Hispanic and so forth?
It mattered to my African-American friends, but did not matter to my Anglo friends.
And I say that
It was literally, it was a big issue for those of us, for African American students, not all, but a lot of the African American students, it was a big deal and we wanted to do all we could and we wanted the university to do all it could and we thought the university wasn't doing enough.
But we were wanting to help in any way we could.
For my Anglo friends, it was a non-issue.
I didn't have... Does that mean they were biased?
No, I got the impression that it was...
It was like, well, they were indifferent to it.
It wouldn't have mattered to them whether there were more African Americans on campus or not.
Not that they would have been disappointed at all.
It was just like, okay, no problem, no big deal.
There was not a great deal of discussion about race and race relations on campus.
at least for me.
There were some, but there wasn't a national focus on it.
I think it was generally accepted that it was a good thing for the student body and for the faculty to be more diverse.
But I never met any Anglo student that was resistant to it.
I mean, that didn't think that was a good idea.
Can you share any incidents that you have to tolerate from anybody that at the time were inappropriate?
You know, I really can't.
Nobody called you by any name or threw some insult at you?
Not that I remember.
There was one incident when Mr. Runyon and I were at dinner at another time, and he was talking to me about, he was telling me about somebody who worked for him.
And he was telling a story, he was trying to tell me how great this guy was.
And he used the term, he said negro.
I knew Mr. Runyon.
And so what he was, he was not trying to, he was not, he did not, I kept it in the context.
I'm smiling because in the Deep South, 30 years ago when I was doing research, I heard that pronunciation quite often by people who thought they were being polite.
That's exactly, that's exactly it.
That's exactly it.
And he's going on and on about how wonderful this guy is.
And you put two and two together and you go, well, no, he's not.
I mean, he just, the term.